OSDOCS#9971:Added breakglass feature modules for HCP clusters (#73863)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-external-auth-provider-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-external-auth-provider-cli_{context}"]
= Creating an external authentication provider
:source-highlighter: pygments
:pygments-style: emacs
:icons: font
 

> After you have created a {hcp-title} cluster with the enabled option for external authentication providers, you must create a provider using the ROSA CLI.

Reviewer: Should these steps be part of the `rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-external-auth-cluster-cli.adoc` module? If not, should there be a Next Step in that module indicating that the user must do this procedure?

This configuration uses Microsoft Entra ID to authenticate your credentials. The Entra ID values are:

[cols="1,1", options="header"]
|===

|CLI Flag
|Expected value

|`--cluster` 
|This string is the name or the ID of your cluster

|`--name`
|This string is the name you set for your external authentication provider.

|`--issuer-audiences` 
|This common-separated list of strings is your client ID. In Microsoft Entra ID, this is called the audience ID.

|`--issuer-url`
|This string is the URL of the token issuer

|`--claim-mapping-username-claim` 
|This string is the name of the claim that should be used to construct user names for the cluster identity.

|`--claim-mapping-groups-claim`
| This string describes rules on how to transform information from an ID token into a cluster identity.

|===

.Procedure

. Use one of the following commands to create your external authentication provider:

* To use the interactive command interface, run the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider -c <cluster_name>
----
+
This command starts an interactive CLI process:
+
--
[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode

> ? Name: <.>

Reviewer: Is there a reason why you shifted from using hard-coded numbers <1> to the wildcard <.>?

? Issuer audiences: <.>
? The serving url of the token issuer: <.>
? CA file path (optional): <.>
? Claim mapping username: <.>
? Claim mapping groups: <.>
? Claim validation rule (optional): <.>
? Console client id (optional): <.>
----

> <.> The name of your external authentication provider. This name should be a lower-case with numbers and dashes.

Reviewer: should or must??
```suggestion
<.> The name of your external authentication provider. This name must be a lower-case with numbers and dashes.
```

> <.> The issuer audiences field requires you to provide the audience IDs that this authentication provider issues tokens for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<.> The audience IDs that this authentication provider issues tokens for.
```
Or
```suggestion
<.> The `Issuer audiences` field requires you to provide the audience IDs that this authentication provider issues tokens for.
```

> <.> This field uses the issuer's URL that serves the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<.> The issuer's URL that serves the token.
```

> <.> Optional: This field takes the path of a certificate file to use when making requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<.> Optional: The path of a certificate file to use when making requests.
```

<.> The name of the claim that is used to construct the user names for cluster identity, such as using `email`.

> <.> This field specifies how to transform the ID token into a cluster identity, such as using `groups`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<.> How to transform the ID token into a cluster identity, such as using `groups`.
```

> <.> Optional: These are rules that help validate token claims which authenticate your users. This field should be formatted as `<claim:<required_value>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<.> Optional: The rules that help validate token claims which authenticate your users. This field should be formatted as `<claim:<required_value>`.
```

> <.> Optional: This field is the application or client ID that your app registration uses for the console.

Reviewer: Is there a reason why you shifted from using hard-coded numbers <1> to the wildcard <.>?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<.> Optional: The application or client ID that your app registration uses for the console.
```

--

* You can include the required IDs to create your external authentication provider with the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
rosa create external-auth-provider -c <cluster_id> --name <provider_name> --issuer-audiences <audience_id> --issuer-url <issuing id> --claim-mapping-username-claim email --claim-mapping-groups-claim groups
----
+
.Example output

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[source,terminal]
----
I: Successfully created an external authentication provider for cluster '<cluster_id>'
----

.Verification 

> . View the external authentication configuration on your cluster by running the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* View the external authentication configuration on your cluster by running the following commands:
```

* List the external authentication configuration on a specified cluster with the following command:
+ 
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list external-auth-provider -c <cluster_name> 
----  
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME        ISSUER URL
m-entra-id  https://login.microsoftonline.com/<group_id>/v2.0
----

> * Display the external authentication configuration on a specified cluster by using the following command:

Reviewer: And:
```suggestion
* To display the external authentication configuration on a specified cluster, run the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe external-auth-provider -c <cluster_name> --name <name_of_external_authentication>
----
+
.Example output

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
